Add docs for Elixir Minutely Probe (#219)
appsignal/appsignal-docs: source/elixir/instrumentation/minutely-probes.html.md

---
title: "Minutely probes"
---

Minutely probes are a mechanism to periodically send custom metrics to AppSignal.
This is a system that is included in the AppSignal Elixir package by default.
At the start of every minute the minutely probes are triggered one by one to
collect metrics and then snoozed until the next minute.

By default the AppSignal Elixir gem enables a probe for the ErlangVM.

> -> **Note**: This feature is turned on by default in AppSignal Elixir package `1.10.1` and up.

Reviewer: It’s enabled in 1.10.0 and up, but we do recommend using 1.10.1 indeed. Do we want to change this version number here to 1.10.0?

Reviewer 2: I wanted to remove this notice entirely. It's was necessary for the Ruby docs, because the feature existed earlier.

### Multiple instances

Once activated the minutely probes system runs on every instance of an app.
This means that if a probe report metrics without some kind of differentiating tag,
global metrics may be overwritten by instance-level metrics.

To remedy this, we suggest [tagging](/metrics/custom.html#metric-tags) your
metrics with the hostname or something else unique for each instance.
For example, the ErlangVM Probe tags metrics with the hostname by default.

Alternatively you can [disable minutely probes](/elixir/configuration/options.html#option-enable_minutely_probes) for all but one instance, on which the minutely probes process is run. We suggest using the [`APPSIGNAL_ENABLE_MINUTELY_PROBES`](/elixir/configuration/options.html#option-enable_minutely_probes) environment variable to only enable it on the instance of your choosing.

## Configuration

The minutely probes are configured using the [`enable_minutely_probes`](/elixir/configuration/options.html#option-enable_minutely_probes) config option. The default value is `true`.

## Creating probes

If you want to track more [custom metrics](/metrics/custom.html) from your app

> than our default proves do, you can add your own prove(s).

Reviewer: ProBes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
than our default probes do, you can add your own probe(s).
```

Author: Hey, at least I'm consistent :P
